what if I told you that Rising
foreclosures across the U.S was not the
number one problem that Bankers are
concerned about despite what happened
during the financial crisis and housing
crisis back in 2007-2008 there's
something else right now that is very
worrisome and I'm going to show that to
you in the first half of this video what
I want to do here at the money GPS is
give you the truth I'm not going to
sugarcoat it I'm not going to make it
soft if you have the willingness then
you're going to get the truth my name is
David quintiri and I am here to bring
you what you need to know not what you
want to hear so if you want let's get
into it you could see it for yourself
home foreclosures or Rising Nationwide
with Florida California and Texas in the
lead you can see that this is affecting
a lot of different places across the US
cost of living in the US continues to
climb foreclosures also on the rise for
closer related filings which include
default notices scheduled auctions and
bank repossessions were up seven percent
from April and 14 from a year ago I
think I need to make it very clear that
we are talking from a very low point
however it is a very obvious that when
you increase borrowing costs when you
increase the price that people have been
paying overall as well as all of their
other expenses going up you're going to
have problems everywhere they can't pay
their student loans they can't pay their
mortgages they can't pay their car
payments everything right now is
increasing car payment delinquencies are
increasing over and across the board we
are seeing this but it isn't even on the
radar of the bankers because something
else is going on let me show you
something first though look at this the
end of easy money bankruptcy filings
pile up at the fastest rate since 2010.
a cleansing process long overdue to
whittle down the corporate debt overhang
and clear out the dead wood at the
expense of investors we're seeing this
as well I I think that this is telling
very telling about what's happening
inside the industry that you look at a
lot of these different companies and
they are going bankrupt all right five
month total 286 bankruptcy filings is
the most since 2010 more than double the
filings in the same period in 2022 even
outran the 262 filings that came in the
same period in 2020. now what happened
in 2020 of course was kind of this
hesitation how long I thought it was
going to be two weeks what's going on
here is my business going to be shut
down oh we're getting a whole bunch of
cash oh I suddenly I don't need to pay
the landlord any money maybe I'll just
hang on like it was all that happening
more moratoriums in place all these
different things so I could see how it
would be lower in those years these
things are happening simultaneously okay
do you see that the foreclosures the
bankruptcies they've all picked up this
is not if you can believe it or not not
even on the radar for what I will show
you right here and now
okay
think about this for a second understand
what happened with svb gave us insight
as to what is going on underneath the
system right now as we raise interest
rates we make everything more difficult
I'm going to show you something that I
think everybody needs to understand
right now if you have the patience if
you'll sit with me for a minute I will
explain it all
there's more trouble coming for regional
Banks commercial commercial real estate
will pressure Bank Banks loan books
credit contraction is coming yes this is
essential to understand right now the
stock market isn't so worried
um you know the way I see it isn't so
worried about what's happening inside of
you know these uh Banks if you look at
tech stocks that's the way I see it
however lenders are still facing serious
pressure that's the point I want to note
a credit contraction is invariably
coming why I think it is very clear
they'll say it here let me cover it one
further source of trouble for the
industry will be commercial we have a
state an area that in recent years
smaller Regional banks have become a
bigger force and that's what I'm talking
about that is very important working
from home has cut into office values in
almost 1.5 trillion dollars of
commercial property that is due for
repayment before the end of 2025. I
covered this in a video just recently
have you seen that one if not make sure
you subscribe and I'll bring you the
latest updates as we go through that
just click that subscribe button down
below meanwhile Rising interest rates
have made many properties less valuable
uh oh that's where we get it U.S banks
have become much more vulnerable to a
declining commercial real estate's
prices the upshot is that 700 U.S banks
now exceed the fdic's guidance from 2006
on Commercial Real Estate loan
concentration oh that therefore we're
fine right no problem yeah well you can
see where the issue is and that is the
smaller Banks and the smaller Banks you
might say well you know they're you know
just the small Banks those are the
majority of the loans believe it or not
the smaller Banks not the big boys the
smaller Banks
are the ones doing a lot of these loans
and that's where things become a little
sticky you gotta understand here we're
rising Rising borrowing costs increasing
interest rates and you've got a lot of
these companies like svb that are
holding on to these different assets
remember they have to pay out a return
to their
um you know to their people their their
investors how do they get that well they
bought some sort of asset a little while
ago maybe that was three months ago
maybe that was you know three years ago
and it's paying them a return and then
in turn they give something to their
clients now what if they were only
giving a small amount well if they're a
smaller lender if they're more obscure
and so on they're not going to do good
business they need to attract customers
with a higher yield better return and so
what svb was doing was they were buying
mortgage backed garbage I mean sorry
mortgage-backed Securities okay so they
were buying these mortgage-backed
Securities which if you remember in 2008
into 2009 they called this toxic they
lit they would use that word I don't see
that anymore I'm the only one I've seen
that uses that word still toxic assets
toxic those two shouldn't be together
but toxic asset that's what they used to
call them
and now what do we have oh we have
mortgage-backed Securities oh that
sounds fine
that sounds fine they're backed by
mortgages that that's good well here's
the issue is that we are seeing this
compound
because interest rates have risen
suddenly the value of those things they
bought is not so good and so they're
left with all this garbage toxic garbage
on their balance sheets and they can't
pay out their investors
so we have a concentration of that bad
stuff right here and now all right so
here we go small some banks are already
if I go up to that some banks are
already shrinking their exposure to
commercial real estate this is one pack
West one of the U.S lenders engulfed and
the commotion is selling a 2.6 billion
dollar portfolio real estate
construction loans to shore up liquidity
the small minnows have the Lions share
of the exposure they have approximately
14 percent of their total assets in
commercial real estate exposures but it
can be as high as over 40 percent of
their total assets I hope I'm making
myself clear at why this is a big
problem we're talking about billions of
dollars many many many companies in
different parts of the United States
exposed at a relatively high level and
if interest rates get cut tomorrow I
don't think it's going to be such a big
issue but the expectation is that this
is going to go on for a while
do you understand here
if you need clarification please let me
know if there's any aspect of this you
want to know just say it I will make a
video that's what I've been doing almost
every single day in the afternoon video
or the evening video where that comes
out to you that's based on a request
from you no other channel out there
brings daily content that is
specifically geared to what you are
asking it's unbelievable it is like you
know Grassroots crowdsourced information
that I'm bringing to you you just ask
you shall receive here we go
regional and local banks are big lenders
to the retail and offices the worst the
worst stuff I've been telling you this
for years watch it get away from it
don't touch it with a 10-foot pole don't
touch it at all regional and local banks
are big lenders to retail and offices
the lenders are the biggest credit
provider in each real estate category
market share
of lending in 2022. here we have it see
it for yourself I mean that
unfortunately is is way too hot that's
way too high and to me that is very
worrisome any further Regional bank
failures would likely make credit events
more difficult to access for property
developers and landlords especially
those who are smaller of lower quality
that's going to be an issue I mean this
is going to come up the headwinds mean
office values are not down 27 on average
from the recent Peak after falling
further in the past month there's not
much transacting these days because the
buyers and sellers can't seem to agree
on the pricing these situations
eventually resolve themselves and it's
usually in favor of the buyers meaning
there has to be a price drop do you
understand this the trouble is also
beginning to feed through the commercial
mortgage-backed Securities markets where
about 140 billion of the assets are due
to mature this year
that is not good a rising percentage of
the riskier loans were bundled into
commercial mortgage backed Securities
2022. look at that almost what is that
75 percentage of the loans underlying
cmbs that are interest only 75
we've got problems okay now we can look
into this further I think it is very
clear I'm going to keep touching on this
in future videos all you got to do is
subscribe to the channel and you're
going to get the latest and greatest
okay nobody is aware of how really
hazardous this is
you're talking about something that
quite frankly is dangerous to the entire
Financial system to the deposit that
people have to everything are they going
to backstop the losses yeah but how do
they do that with your taxpayer dollars
with quantitative easing with bail-ins
that might mean the investors or that
might mean the deposits I don't know I
don't know what they're going to do but
I want you to be protect protected and I
want you to know before it happens so
you're getting that information now you
had the you know the willingness to
learn up until this point and you just
got this information how serious the
data showing up right now for you you
can see it here for yourself let me show
you some other aspects of this that I
believe are very significant let's take
a look right here
Park Hotels and Resorts announces
cessation of payment on a 725 million
dollar non-recourse
cmbs loan secured by two of its hotels
here we go what does that mean they're
not paying they're not paying this is
725 million dollars you got a problem so
what do they do all these cases they say
hey we camp I know we owe you 725
million we can't pay that but what we
can pay is and then they make a deal oh
we can only pay 200 million we can only
pay 150 million whatever so somebody's
not getting paid back you understand
this is the big deal right here what
about this example they're just saying
you got 97 million dollars loan uh
maturation as of March just 9.3 million
of the loan has been paid off
so you see the problem here
I mean it's it's crazy all these
different buildings they're not getting
paid
so the building's there
the lights might be on
somebody might be working in there but
the debt behind it isn't being paid back
and that's here where we have our issue
all right
if I'm not making it clear please let me
know okay I want to show you that the
world central banks are approaching a
critical juncture in their fight against
inflation with the root they'll
ultimately choose set to impact the
economy for years to come the choice is
between trusting the most aggressive
tightening in the four decades will be
enough to damp price pressures that have
only just started to ease or to keep
going to ensure against concerns that
two percent inflation targets are a
thing of the past that's what we're
looking at right here and now
okay and so my opinion right here some
central banks might go in one way or the
other but we are in a moment of you know
a real precarious possession are they
going to keep going on the tightening
are they gonna go backwards look at what
Canada did look at what Australia did
these two central banks they believed
that oh no that was it that was over
we're stopping but then they increased
again
are they gonna do that again it's
possible because inflation just
continues to go so we'll see what
happens in that example there that's
going to put just like I'm saying the
reason I mentioned that the commercial
mortgage-backed Securities the debt
that's behind the retail the offices
this is really dependent on these
interest rates that quite frankly you
know
uh they they need to be cut fast or
they're going to be in big trouble HS
and by the way commercial real estate
oftentimes it doesn't have that like you
don't pay a mortgage off over 30 years
kind of thing like it's a short-term
debt so they have to uh worry real fast
HSBC among the UK Banks pulling mortgage
deals from the market banks have been
repricing home loans to reflect High
inflation interesting right I'd like to
see where this goes it's very early but
I just wanted to bring that to you
because it is very related and you can
see the way that um the market has been
reacting investors have been reacting
and individuals have been reacting and
that is in this example you can see
deposits the amount of deposits I
covered this in a recent video
or just flooding back in so we're still
off the peak but three weeks in a row
deposits have increased
and that's just showing us
um looking at it seasonally adjusted and
non-seasonally adjusted either way it's
gone up okay
you got to know something you want to
survive a market crash you want to do
you know what you need to do at this
time you got to watch this video right
here don't go anywhere just click this
video and I'll see you there